Doc 7238 documentation for magma (#2309)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/learn/pages/buckets-memory-and-storage/storage-engines.adoc

:description: pass:q[Couchbase supports two different backend storage mechanisms: Couchstore and Magma. It is important to understand which backend storage is best suited to your requirements.]

[abstract]
{description}

== Couchstore

Couchstore is the default bucket storage engine that has been in use for more than ten years. 
It's optimised for high performance with large data sets while using fewer system resources (the minimum bucket size for Couchstore backend is 100 MB). 
If you have a small data set that can fit in memory, then you should consider using Couchstore.

== Magma

Magma is Couchbase's latest storage engine that is designed for high performance with very large datasets that do not fit in memory. It is ideal for use cases that rely primarily on disk access. The performance of disk access will be as good as the underlying disk subsystems. e.g. using NVMe SSDs will give higher performance.  
Magma can work with very low amounts of memory for large datasets. e.g. for a node holding 5TB of data, Magma can be used with only 64GB RAM. Magma buckets do require a minimum of 256MB RAM and you should not go below a RAM allocation of 1% of your total data size. 

> It is optimised for SSD disk access and higher transaction performance, and has such has higher hardware resource requirements. 

Reviewer: we should remove this sentence.

Author: Line 17?

Reviewer: Yes. This one 'It is optimized for SSD disk access...'

It is especially suited to data sets that will not fit into available memory.

IMPORTANT: Currently, Magma does not support Full Text Searching, Eventing or Analytics. If the use case requires these features, Couchstore should be used.

> == Couchstore and Magma at a Glance

Reviewer: We should add one more entry to this table.
Minimum memory to data ratio. 
- Couchstore 10%
- Magma 1%

|===
| {empty} | Couchstore |Magma

| Minimum bucket size
| 100 MB
| 256 MB

| Maximum data per node
| 3 TB
| 5 TB

| Full text search
| Yes
| No

| Eventing
| Yes
| No

| Analytics
| Yes
| No
|===

== When should you use Couchstore?

The choice of Couchstore or Magma is available at the Bucket level. A single Couchbase cluster can have a mix of Couchstore and Magma buckets.

You should use the Couchstore backend if:

* you have a dataset with a working set that will fit in available memory (and the working set is > 20%)
* you're running the Couchbase server on low-end hardware.
* your bucket  needs to support full text searching, eventing, or analytics.

== When should you use Magma?

You should use the Magma backend if:

> * your data set is much larger than the available memory (available memory < 20% of your dataset) and you need disk access speed only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* your working set is much larger than the available memory and you need disk access speed only
```
